Section: ED-EMS application (#11)
11michalis11/ED-EMS-game-paper: sections/healthcare_application/main.tex

\subsection{Application}

> The system defined in section \ref{sec:model_overview} can be directly applied 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The system defined in section \ref{sec:model_overview} can be applied 
```

(Less words more betterer)

to a healthcare scenario with two such queueing systems.
The two queueing systems can be thought of as two Emergency Departments (ED) and 
the Emergency Medical Services (EMS) as a distributor that distributes 

> patients to them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
patients to them.

% TODOAdd a small paragraph here referencing the news articles as anecdotes of the problems this causes.

```

The parameters of the model can also be mapped into parameters of the ED and 

> the EMS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The parameters of the model correspond to the following parameters of the ED and 
the EMS:
```

\begin{itemize}
    \item \( \lambda_2 \): The rate of non-emergency patients that the EMS 
    receives
    \item \( \lambda_{1_i} \): The arrival rate of other patients to ED \(i\)
    \item \( \mu_i \): The service rate of patients at ED \(i\)
    \item \( C_i \): The number of available resources (beds) in ED \(i\)  
    \item \( T_i \): The strategy that ED \(i\) chooses to play
    \item \( N_i \): The total patient capacity of ED \(i\)

>     \item \( M_i \): The total parking capacity of ED \(i\)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \item \( \lambda_{1_i} \): The arrival rate of other patients to ED \(i\in\{1, 2\}\)
    \item \( \mu_i \): The service rate of patients at ED \(i\in\{1, 2\}\)
    \item \( C_i \): The number of available resources (beds) in ED \(i\in\{1, 2\}\)  
    \item \( T_i \): The action that ED \(i\in\{1, 2\\) chooses to play which corresponds to the threshold at which they do not accept EMS patients.
    \item \( N_i \): The total patient capacity of ED \(i\in\{1, 2\\)
    \item \( M_i \): The total parking capacity of ED \(i\in\{1, 2\\)
```

    \item \( R \): The time target for both EDs

>     \item \( \alpha \in [0, 1] \) : \textit{Importance} of blocking time and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \item \( \alpha \in [0, 1] \) : \textit{Weighting} of blocking time and 
```

    lost individuals (equation \ref{eq:obj-distributor})
\end{itemize}

The patients that are distributed by the EMS arrive at the hospital via an 
ambulance and are then either unloaded at the ED or stay blocked outside in 
the ambulance.
Whether or not the ambulance and the patient stay blocked is determined by 
the threshold that the given ED chooses to play.
High threshold indicates that the ED accepts patients even if it is relatively 

> full, while low threshold means that the ED blocks ambulances more frequently.

Reviewer: Would this paragraph be better BEFORE the list of parameters?

Reviewer 2: Hmmm. Yeah I agree. It makes a bit more sense to include it before

> The game to be played now is between the two EDs and the EMS. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The strategies of the two EDs are the range of thresholds that they can choose
from and their utilities is the proportion of individuals whose time in the 
system is within a predetermined target time.
The EMS has to decide how to distribute its patients among the two EDs so that 

> the blocking time of ambulances is minimised. 

Reviewer: Should this not incorporate the weighting/importance (`alpha`). So should this say something like:

```
their utilities are a weighted combination of the proportion of 
individuals whose time in the system is within a predetermined 
target **and** the percentage of lost patients?
```

Reviewer 2: Yep, I see what you are saying. BUT, `alpha` is used for the EMS decision (i.e. what percentage to send to each hospital). So I think I should include something like that:

```suggestion
from and their utilities is the proportion of individuals whose time in the 
system is within a predetermined target time.
The EMS has to decide how to distribute its patients among the two EDs so that 
the weighted combination of the ambulance blocking time and the percentage of 
lost ambulances is minimised. 
```

As defined in \ref{sec:model_overview}, the interaction between the two EDs 
is a Normal form game that is then used to inform the decision of the EMS.
Note that the formulated game here assumes that prior to making a choice the 
EMS knows the strategies that each ED is playing (figure 

> \ref{fig:imperfect-info-game}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the formulated game here assumes that prior to making a choice the 
EMS knows the strategies that each ED is playing (figure 
\ref{fig:imperfect-info-game}). This corresponds to reacting to experienced delays.
```

> \subsection{Data Analysis}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\subsection{Numerical Results}
```

This subsection aims to analyse how the gaming framework can affect the 
performance measures of the two hospitals and how to avoid certain inefficient 
situations.

In order to analyse the strategies played by the two EDs, the learning algorithm
asymmetric replicator dynamics is used \cite{asymmetricreplicatordynamics}.
The use of a learning algorithm allows to investigate, not only the outcome of 
the game, but also how that outcome is reached.

> Consider figure \ref{fig:ard-by-itself}. 

Reviewer: Before moving to the replicator dynamics include a small numerical example where you compute the NE.

Then discuss what that means but also discuss how we are not sure if NE will naturally be reached.

Then something like: 

```
... since the work of Maynard Smith <cite> EGT gives tools for the emergence 
of stable behaviour.
One such model that allows for asymetric payoffs, as is the case above,
is replicator dynamics ...
Stable outcomes of this algorithm will correspond to a subset of Nash
equilibria but more importantly
give a model of emergent behaviour. ... 
```

Reviewer: We then also need to include some of the mathematics.

By running asymmetric replicator dynamics on the system the behaviour that 
emerges can be observed.

> It can be seen that for these particular set of parameters the strategies of 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can be seen that for this particular set of parameters the strategies of 
```

What is more important in this example is how the two hospitals reached these
decisions which also highlights the importance of using a learning algorithm.
Hospital 2 is able to reach the decision in a short amount of time while 
hospital 1 takes longer and goes through numerous strategies to get there.

\begin{figure}[H]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[scale=0.4, trim=120 0 120 0]{imgs/asymmetric_rd/asymmetric_rd.png}
    \caption{Asymmetric replicator dynamics run}
    \label{fig:ard-by-itself}
\end{figure}

\begin{multicols}{3}
    \begin{itemize}
        \item \( \lambda_{1_1} \) = 1
        \item \( \mu_1 \) = 2
        \item \( C_1 \) = 2
        \item \( N_1 \) = 10
        \item \( M_1 \) = 6

        \columnbreak
        \item \( \lambda_{1_2} \) = 2
        \item \( \mu_2 \) = 2.5
        \item \( C_2 \) = 2
        \item \( N_2 \) = 10
        \item \( M_2 \) = 6
        
        \columnbreak
        \item \( \lambda_2 \) = 2
        \item \( R \) = 2
        \item \( \alpha \) = 0.5
    \end{itemize}
\end{multicols}

To study the efficiency of the strategies being played a new concept is 
introduced that considers the ratio between each hospital's best achievable 

> blocking time and the one that is being played.

Reviewer: It's not 100% new, we need to include some discussion of the literature on PoA here and explain how your compartmentalised one is different (which you do below).

Reviewer: Once you do that we might need to tweak some of the rest.

This new concept is defined as the compartmentalised price of anarchy of the 
players of the game and is defined as \(PoA_i(\tilde{s})\), where 

> \(i \in [1, 2]\) to distinguish among the two players/hospitals where 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\(i \in \{1, 2\}\) to distinguish among the two players/hospitals where 
```

\(\tilde{s}\) is the strategy that is being played by player \( i \). 
The compartmentalised price of anarchy aims to measure inefficiencies in the 
model.
The \(PoA\) for the blocking time of player \(i\) for strategy \(\tilde{s}\) 
is given by:

\begin{equation}\label{eq:poa_compartmentalised}
    PoA_{i}(\tilde{s}) = \frac{B_i(\tilde{s})}{\min_{s \in S_i} B_i(s)}
\end{equation}

> Consider a game with the following parameters:

Reviewer: Add a sentence specifying how this differs from the other set of parameters.

\begin{multicols}{3}
    \begin{itemize}        
        \item \( \lambda_{1_1} \) = 4.5
        \item \( \mu_1 \) = 2
        \item \( C_1 \) = 3
        \item \( T_1 \in [1, N_1] \) 
        \item \( N_1 \) = 6
        \item \( M_1 \) = 5

        \columnbreak
        \item \( \lambda_{1_2} \) = 6
        \item \( \mu_2 \) = 3
        \item \( C_2 \) = 2
        \item \( T_2 \in [1, N_2] \)
        \item \( N_2 \) = 7
        \item \( M_2 \) = 4
        
        \columnbreak
        \item \( \lambda_2 \) = 10.7
        \item \( R \) = 2
        \item \( \alpha \) = 0.9
    \end{itemize}
\end{multicols}

> \textbf{Base run:}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\textbf{Initial scenario:}
```

Using equation (\ref{eq:poa_compartmentalised}) and asymmetric replicator 

> dynamics the game can be simulated and show the compartmentalised price of 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dynamics the emergent behaviour can be measured and the compartmentalised price of 
```

anarchy at every iteration for both players.
Figure \ref{fig:ard_original} shows the strategies that are being played and 
the values of \(PoA_1(s)\) and \(PoA_2(s)\) for all iterations of the 
learning algorithm until it reaches an evolutionary stable pair of strategies.

\begin{figure}[H]
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{imgs/asymmetric_rd_and_PoA/asymmetric_original.pdf}
    \caption{The strategies played when running asymmetric replicator dynamics
    along with the compartmentalised price of anarchy of the blocking time at
    each iteration of the learning algorithm}
    \label{fig:ard_original}
\end{figure}

> It can be observed that the learning algorithm reaches a stable pair of 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The learning algorithm reaches a stable pair of 
```

strategies where \(T_1 = 5\) and \(T_2 = 6\). After a number of iterations the
price of anarchy for both players stabilises and barely increases until the 
final iteration. 

\textbf{Increasing \(\lambda_2\):}
Figure \ref{fig:ard_lambda_2} shows a similar run of the

> algorithm but when the strategies begin to stabilise a huge increase in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
algorithm but when the strategies begin to stabilise an increase in the
```

arrival rate of ambulances occurs (i.e \( \lambda_2 = 10.7 \)).

\begin{figure}[H]
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{imgs/asymmetric_rd_and_PoA/asymmetric_flooding.pdf}
    \caption{The strategies played when running asymmetric replicator dynamics
    along with the compartmentalised price of anarchy of the blocking time at
    each iteration of the learning algorithm. After a number of iterations the 
    arrival rate of ambulance patients is significantly increased to flood the
    system completely \( \lambda_2 = 10.7 \).}
    \label{fig:ard_lambda_2}
\end{figure}

By increasing \(\lambda_2\) there is no change as to how players behave
(\(T_1 = 5, T_2 = 6\)), but the efficiency of the system does change. 
There is a decline in the price of anarchy of the blocking time which at first 

> glance indicates that upon flooding the system it becomes more efficient. 
> This is non-sensical though.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
glance indicates that upon flooding the system it becomes the 
loss in efficiency due to rational individual behaviour decreases.
```

What it really shows is that the steep increase in \( \lambda_2 \) leaves 

> less potential for improvement. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the system unable to cope regardless of the decisions made.
```

        The strategies played when running asymmetric replicator dynamics
        along with the compartmentalised price of anarchy of the blocking time 
        at each iteration of the learning algorithm. After a number of 
        iterations the number of servers for both systems are increased by one.
    }
    \label{fig:ard_num_of_servers}
\end{figure}

In this case, both the behaviour as well as the price of anarchy change.
The players change their strategies from \(T_1 = 5, T_2 = 6\) to 
\(T_1 = 6, T_2 = 7\) and the \(PoA\) of the blocking time goes down.
By adding more resources to the models they are able to increase their 
efficiency.
Although this is a good way to escape such inefficiencies, it might not always
be cost efficient.

\textbf{Incentivising players:}
From figures \ref{fig:ard_lambda_2} and \ref{fig:ard_num_of_servers} it can be
seen that we can change some parameters of the model to make it more efficient.
The approach used on figure \ref{fig:ard_penalty} is slightly different than 
the previous cases.
Once the played strategies in asymmetric replicator dynamics strategies 
converge the payoff matrices of the two are scaled in such a way so that the 

> utilities of the selected strategy is penalised.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
utilities of the selected strategy are penalised. This corresponds to a precise
policy change where more societally beneficial behaviours are incentivised.
```

\begin{figure}[H]
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{imgs/asymmetric_rd_and_PoA/asymmetric_penalty.pdf}
    \caption{
        The strategies played when running asymmetric replicator dynamics
        along with the compartmentalised price of anarchy of the blocking time 
        at each iteration of the learning algorithm. After a number of 
        iterations the most dominant strategy is being penalised.
    }
    \label{fig:ard_penalty}
\end{figure}

Figure \ref{fig:ard_penalty} shows that players start playing strategies 
\( T_1 = 5\) and \( T_2 = 6 \) and mid-run of the learning algorithm a penalty
is applied to these strategies on the payoff matrix.

> By incentivising the players in such a way the players change their strategies 

Reviewer: We should probably include the actual matrices here?
